## I.10.1 Identifiers

Languages that are either case-sensitive or case-insensitive can support the CLS. Since its rules apply only to items exported to other languages, **private** members or types that aren’t exported from an assembly can use any names they choose. For interoperation, however, there are some restrictions.

In order to make tools work well with a case-sensitive language it is important that the exact case of identifiers be maintained. At the same time, when dealing with non-English languages encoded in Unicode, there might be more than one way to represent precisely the same identifier that includes combining characters. The CLS requires that identifiers obey the restrictions of the appropriate Unicode standard and they are persisted in Canonical form C, which preserves case but forces combining characters into a standard representation. See CLS Rule 4, in §[I.8.5.1](#todo-missing-hyperlink).

At the same time, it is important that externally visible names not conflict with one another when used from a case-insensitive programming language. As a result, all identifier comparisons shall be done internally to CLS-compliant tools using the Canonical form KC, which first transforms characters to their case-canonical representation. See CLS Rule 4, in §[I.8.5.1](#todo-missing-hyperlink).

When a compiler for a CLS-compliant language supports interoperability with a non-CLScompliant language it must be aware that the CTS and VES perform all comparisons using codepoint (i.e., byte-by-byte) comparison. Thus, even though the CLS requires that persisted identifiers be in Canonical form C, references to non-CLS identifiers will have to be persisted using whatever encoding the non-CLS language chose to use. It is a language design issue, not covered by the CTS or the CLS, precisely how this should be handled.
