## I.8.10.2 Method inheritance

A derived object type inherits all of the instance and virtual methods of its base object type. It does not inherit constructors or static methods. Just because a method exists does not mean that it can be invoked. It shall be accessible via the typed reference that is being used by the referencing code. The type visibility, method accessibility, and security attributes of the method definition (see ยง[I.8.5.3](i.8.5.3-visibility-accessibility-and-security.md)) determine if a method is accessible to the derived object type.

A derived object type can hide a non-virtual (i.e., static or instance) method of its base type by providing a new method definition with the same name or same name and signature. Either method can still be invoked, subject to method accessibility rules, since the type that contains the method always qualifies a method reference.

Virtual methods can be marked as **final**, in which case, they shall not be overridden in a derived object type. This ensures that the implementation of the method is available, by a virtual call, on any object that supports the contract of the base class that supplied the final implementation. If a virtual method is not final it is possible to demand a security permission in order to override the virtual method, so that the ability to provide an implementation can be limited to classes that have particular permissions. When a derived type overrides a virtual method, it can specify a new accessibility for the virtual method, but the accessibility in the derived class shall permit at least as much access as the access granted to the method it is overriding. See ยง[I.8.5.3](i.8.5.3-visibility-accessibility-and-security.md).
