## I.8.9.6.3 Type members

Object type definitions include member definitions for all of the members of the type. Briefly, members of a type include fields into which values are stored, methods that can be invoked, properties that are available, and events that can be raised. Each member of a type can have attributes as described in §[I.8.4](i.8.4-type-members.md).

 * Fields of an object type specify the representation of values of the object type by specifying the component pieces from which it is composed (see [I.8.4.1](i.8.4.1-fields-array-elements-and-values.md)). Static fields specify fields associated with the object type itself (see §[I.8.4.3](i.8.4.3-static-fields-and-static-methods.md)). The fields of an object type are named and they are typed via location signatures. The names of the members of the type are scoped to the type (see §[I.8.5.2](i.8.5.2-assemblies-and-scoping.md)). Fields are declared using a field definition (see §[I.8.11.2](#todo-missing-hyperlink)).

 * Methods of an object type specify operations on values of the type (see §I.8.4.2). Static methods specify operations on the type itself (see §[I.8.4.3](i.8.4.3-static-fields-and-static-methods.md)). Methods are named and they have a method signature. The names of methods are scoped to the type (see §[I.8.5.2](i.8.5.2-assemblies-and-scoping.md)). Methods are declared using a method definition (see §[I.8.11.1](#todo-missing-hyperlink)).

 * Properties of an object type specify named values that are accessible via methods that read and write the value. The name of the property is the grouping of the methods; the methods themselves are also named and typed via method signatures. The names of properties are scoped to the type (see §[I.8.5.2](i.8.5.2-assemblies-and-scoping.md)). Properties are declared using a property definition (see §[I.8.11.3](#todo-missing-hyperlink)).

 * Events of an object type specify named state transitions in which subscribers can register/unregister interest via accessor methods. When the state changes, the subscribers are notified of the state transition. The name of the event is the grouping of the accessor methods; the methods themselves are also named and typed via method signatures. The names of events are scoped to the type (see §[I.8.5.2](i.8.5.2-assemblies-and-scoping.md)). Events are declared using an event definition (see §[I.8.11.4](#todo-missing-hyperlink)).
