## III.1.8 Verifiability and correctness

Memory safety is a property that ensures programs running in the same address space are correctly isolated from one another (see [Partition I](#todo-missing-hyperlink)). Thus, it is desirable to test whether programs are memory safe prior to running them. Unfortunately, it is provably impossible to do this with 100% accuracy. Instead, the CLI can test a stronger restriction, called *verifiability*. Every program that is verified is memory safe, but some programs that are not verifiable are still memory safe.

Correct CIL is CIL that executes on all conforming implementations of the CLI, with welldefined behavior as specified in this standard. However, correct CIL need not result in identical behavior across conforming implementations; that is, the behavior might be implementation-specific.

It is perfectly acceptable to generate correct CIL code that is not verifiable, but which is known to be memory safe by the compiler writer. Thus, correct CIL might not be verifiable, even though the producing compiler might *know* that it is memory safe. Several important uses of CIL instructions are not verifiable, such as the pointer arithmetic versions of `add` that are required for the faithful and efficient compilation of C programs. For non-verifiable code, memory safety is the responsibility of the application programmer.

Correct CIL contains a *verifiable subset*. The Verifiability description gives details of the conditions under which a use of an instruction falls within the verifiable subset of CIL. Verification tracks the types of values in much finer detail than is required for the basic functioning of the CLI, because it is checking that a CIL code sequence respects not only the basic rules of the CLI with respect to the safety of garbage collection, but also the typing rules of the CTS. This helps to guarantee the sound operation of the entire CLI.

The verifiability section of each operation description specifies requirements both for correct CIL generation and for verification. Correct CIL generation always requires guaranteeing that the top items on the stack correspond to the types shown in the stack transition diagram. The verifiability section specifies only requirements for correct CIL generation that are not captured in that diagram. Verification tests both the requirements for correct CIL generation and the specific verification conditions that are described with the instruction. The operation of CIL sequences that do not meet the CIL correctness requirements is unspecified. The operation of CIL sequences that meet the correctness requirements, but which are not verifiable, might violate type safety and hence might violate security or memory access constraints. See [II.3](#todo-missing-hyperlink) for additional information.
